Welcome back. In the last two weeks, you learned what
is AI, and how to build an AI project. This week we'll look at the projects
we talked about already, and talk about how projects fit
in the context of a company. Whether it's a for-profit, non-profit,
or even within a government entity. For the sake of concreteness,
I'll talk about building AI for companies will equally apply, no matter
what type of organization you're in. Now, in case some of what you hear
this week sounds like CEO level talk, don't be intimidated. This is actually useful for
everyone to know, the ones that hope, your company will
help your organization Improve using AI. And it does take maybe two or three years
for a company to become good at AI. To embrace not just one AI project but
a sequence of valuable AI projects and become much more effective. But what I hope to do this week
is help you paint a vision for where an organization can go over
a longer period of time like that. But also end the week with very concrete
short steps you can take right away. So let's get started. In detail,
these are the topics you'll see this week. First is case studies
of complex AI products. So rather then a single
machine learning or data science module like
what you saw last week. This week you'll see you how multiple
modules can come together to build a much more complex AI product such as
a smart speaker or a self-driving car. You also learn what are the major
roles in an AI team. So if ever you think your company can
build a large AI team with maybe many dozens or maybe even hundreds of people,
what are the things these people will do? We'll start to paint a roadmap for
what building an AI team might look like. Third, you also learn about
the AI transformation playbook of how to help your
company become good at AI. Where it goes beyond doing one or
two valuable projects, but about making a whole company good at AI
and hopefully much more effective and valuable as a result. Finally, whereas some of these steps may
take a small number of years to complete. We'll wrap this week's videos with concrete
suggestions on how you can take your first step, right away,
toward building AI in your company. Beyond these major topics, we'll also have
a couple of optional videos at the end, where you see a survey of major AI
application areas and techniques. So, after this week's videos,
I hope you have a good vision of how you can help your company use AI and also
have first steps you can take right away. Lets get started by going
on to the next video.