AI is automation on steroids
before the rise of modern AI, automation had already had
a huge impact on a lot of jobs. With the rise of AI, the set of things
we can now automate is suddenly much bigger than before and so this is also
having an accelerating impact on jobs. How many jobs will be displayed,
how many new jobs we've created? I don't think anyone has a firm
answer to these questions yet, but let's take a look at some studies to
try to understand what may be ahead. McKinsey Global Institute
estimated that 400 to 800 million jobs will be displaced by AI automation
by 2030 these are very large numbers. On the flip side, though,
the same report also estimates that the number of jobs created
by AI may be even larger. Other studies do give numbers that
can be a bit different for example, a Goldman Sachs study estimates
a lower 300 million jobs lost by 2033, rather than McKinsey's estimate
of 400 to 800 million. So there's still quite a lot of
uncertainty about the impact of AI on jobs, though most agree
it will be significant. But I find it encouraging
that many studies estimate quite possibly even more jobs
being created than displays. So there will be plenty of work for
people to do in the future, even if, unfortunately, the need to reskill workers
could be significant in some sectors. And I think many of the jobs of
the future we may not even have names for yet, be it drone traffic optimizer,
or 3D printed clothing designer, or past and healthcare will have
custom DNA based drug designers. So even though there is concern about AI
displacing jobs, there's also hope of many new jobs, maybe even more new
jobs being created in the future. Now you might wonder, how do we estimate
how many jobs are likely to be displaced? One typical way that these studies
are carried out would be to take a job and think of the tasks that make up their job. For example, you might look at
the tasks that a radiologist does, or look at all the tasks
that a taxi driver does. And then for each of the tasks, estimate how amenable it is
to automation through AI. And if a job comprises mainly
tasks that are highly automatable, then the risk of the job being
displaced will be higher. Most AI engineers find
it more useful to think of AI being applied to tasks
rather than to people's jobs. But this framework allows us to
use AI's ability to automate tasks to estimate how many jobs
are likely to be displaced. So which are the jobs
that are most likely, or least likely to be displaced
through AI and automation? McKinsey looked at the impact of AI,
including generative AI tools, on a wide range of jobs. This figure, which is adapted from
data presented in their study, presents the 10 jobs that have the most
potential for AI automation by 2033. The number immediately to the right
of each bar, like 87 or 82 here is an estimate of the percentage of work
tasks that may be automated for that job. This list includes a wide range of
what McKinsey calls occupation groups, including office work, mechanical
installation and repair, business and legal, professional work, and
customer service and sales. One thing worth noting here is that
generative AI has had a big impact on the types of jobs that can
now be automated by AI. The ability of these tools to
generate human sounding text, to write empathetic emails, and to chat
with humans has exposed new categories of jobs to AI automation that were
previously less susceptible to automation. In fact, if you look at the automation
potential of these jobs without generative AI tools, you see some
significant increases in the potential for AI automation in the occupations
that involve writing and communications tasks like
office support and legal work. The numbers in the right column here
show how much of the global workforce is employed in each occupation group. Together, these top 10 occupations
employ more than 70% of workers around the world, a huge number of
people how do we help citizens and nations navigate the coming
impacts of AI on jobs? Here are some possible solutions first, conditional basic income you may
have heard of universal basic income in which a government would pay
citizens with no strings attached. I think people do deserve a safety net and
for individuals that are unemployed but
are able to learn. I think a more effective version may be
conditional basic income in which we do provide the safety net but
incentivize them to keep on learning and keep on investing in
their own development. By providing a structure to help
people that can learn do so, this will increase the ods that those
individuals can reenter the workforce, contribute to themselves,
their families, and to society, as well as to the tax
base that is paying for all this. Second, building a lifelong learning
society by virtue of your taking this course right now, you may already be
part of this lifelong learning society. The old model of education where you go to
college for four years and then coast for the remaining 40 that just doesn't work
anymore in today's rapidly changing world. And through governments, companies, and individuals realizing that all
of us need to keep on learning, this increases the ods that everyone
will be better positioned, even as jobs may go away, to take advantage of
the new jobs being created as well. In the future even after
completing college, I think most individuals should keep on
learning throughout their whole lives. Finally, there are political
solutions being explored as well, everything from incentivizing or
helping with new job creation to legislation to make sure that
people are treated fairly. I hope that society will
figure out the right political solutions to navigate the coming
impact of AI on jobs as well. One question sometimes asks is, what
should you do if you want to work in AI? Recently a radiologist resident, sir, a
radiologist, near the start of his career, he actually asked me. He said, hey Andrew, I'm hearing a lot
about the coming impact of AI on radiology and he said, should I quit my profession
and just learn AI and do AI instead? And my answer to him was, no, you could do that you can actually quit
whatever you're doing and pick up AI from scratch it is entirely possible
to do that many people have done that. There's one other alternative that
you could consider though, which is I said to this radiology resident,
consider doing work in AI plus radiology. Because with your knowledge of radiology,
if in addition you learn something about AI, you'll be better positioned to do
work at the intersection of radiology and AI than most other people. So if you want to do more work in AI,
it is possible in today's world to learn AI from scratch through online courses and
other resources. But if you take whatever you are already
knowledgeable in and learn some AI and do your area plus AI, then you might
be more uniquely qualified to do very valuable work by applying AI to whatever
area you are already an expert in. So I hope this video helps you
navigate the coming impacts of AI and jobs let's go on to the next and
final video of this course.