Welcome to AI for everyone. AI is changing the
way we work and live. This non technical
course will teach you how to navigate
the rise of AI. Whether you want to
know what's behind the buzzwords or
whether you want to perhaps use AI
yourself either in a personal context or in a corporation or
other organization. This course will teach you how. If you want to
understand how AI is affecting society and how
you can navigate that. You also learn that
from this course. In this first week, we'll start by cutting through
the hype and giving you a realistic view of what AI really is. Let's get started. Many experts agree that AI would create a huge
amount of value. For example, according to a study by McKinsey
Global Institute, AI would create an
additional 13 to $22 trillion of value annually
by the year 2033. Of this 13 to 22 trillion to $4,000,000,000,000
is predicted to come from what's
called generative AI, which is a relatively
new type of AI technology that can
produce high quality content, specifically text,
images, and audio. But the larger portion of value will be from other forms
of AI than generative AI. For example, a technology
called supervised learning. We'll focus more on these
other more mature types of AI technology in this course. AI is already creating tremendous amounts of value
in the software industry. And the McKinsey study points out that a lot
of the value to be created in the future lies
outside the software industry. For example, in sectors
such as retail travel, transportation, automotive materials
manufacturing, and so on. I should have a
hard time thinking of an industry that I don't think AI will have a huge impact on in the
next several years. My friends and I used to
challenge each other to name an industry where we don't think AI will have a huge impact. My best example was the
hairdressing industry. Because, how do you use AI robotics to
automate hairdressing? But I once said this onstage
and one of my friends who is a robotics professor was
in the audience that day. She actually stood up and she looked at me in
the eye and she said, you know Andrew, most
people's hairstyles, I couldn't get a robot to
cut their hair that way. But she looked at me and said, your hairstyle, Andrew,
that a robot can do. There's a lot of
excitement but also a lot of unnecessary
hype about AI. One of the reasons for
this is because AI is actually two separate ideas. A large amount of the
value we see from AI today is artificial narrow
intelligence or ANI. These are AIs that
do one thing such as a smart speaker
or self driving car. Or AI for web search, or AI applications in
farming or in a factory. These types of AI are
one trick ponies, but when you find the
appropriate trick, this can be incredibly valuable. With the rise of generative AI, things like chat GPT and bad. We're also starting to see AI, this a bit more general purpose. For example, Chat GPT
can be a copy editor, brainstorming partner,
text summarizer, and help with many other tons. These models have been an
exciting development and is further expanding what
we can now do with AI. In addition, AI also refers
to the concept of AGI, or Artificial General
Intelligence. This is the goal of
building AI that could do any intellectual tasks
that a human can, or maybe even be super intelligent and do even more
things than any human can. I'm seeing tons of
progress in ANI, artificial narrow intelligence, as well as on generative AI. It feels like AI research is slowly taking tiny baby steps, toward AGI, which is exciting. But realistically, we're
still very far from AGI, or artificial general
intelligence. Unfortunately, the rapid
progress in ANI and genitive AI, which are incredibly valuable, that has caused people to
conclude that there's a lot of progress in AI,
which is actually true. But that in turn has
caused people to falsely think that we might be on the verge of AGI as well. Which is leading to some
overblown and unnecessary fears about evil sentient robots
coming to take over humanity. I think AGI is an exciting goal for
researchers to work on, but it'll take multiple technological breakthroughs
before we get there. It may be decades, maybe even hundreds
of years I hope. But I'm not sure if we will
get there in our lifetimes. But given how far away AGI is, I think there is no need to
unduly anxiety about it. In this week, you
learn what AN I can do and how to apply them to your problems
Late in discourse, You also see some case
studies of how AN I. These one trick ponies
can be used to build really valuable
applications such as smart speakers and self
driving calls in detail. In this week, you
learn what is AI. You may have heard of
machine learning and the next video will teach you
what is machine learning. You also learn what is data and what types of
data are valuable, but also what types of
data are not valuable. You learn what it is that makes a company an AI company
or an AI first company. So that perhaps you can start thinking if
there are ways to improve your company or other organization's
ability to use AI. And importantly, you also
learn this week what machine learning can and
cannot do in our society. Newspapers, as well as
research papers tend to talk only about the success stories of machine learning and AI. And we hardly ever see any failure stories because they just aren't as
interesting to report on. But for you to have a
realistic view of what AI and what machine
learning can and cannot do, I think it's important that
you see examples of both. So that they can make more accurate judgments
about what you may and maybe should not try to use these
technologies for. Finally, a lot of the recent
rise of machine learning has been driven through
the rise of deep learning, sometimes also called
neural networks. In the final two optional
videos of this week, you can also see an
intuitive explanation of deep learning so that you will better understand
what they can do. Particularly for a set
of narrow ANI toss. That's what you learn this week. By the end of this week,
you have a sense of AI technologies and what
they can and cannot do. In the second week,
you learn how these AI technologies can be used to build valuable projects. You learn what it feels like
to build an AI project, as well as what you should do to make sure you select
projects that are technically feasible as well as valuable to you or your
business or other organization. After learning what it
takes to build AI projects, in the third week, you learn how to build AI in your company. In particular, if
you want to take a few steps toward making
your company good at AI, you see the AI transformation
playbook and learn how to build AI teams and also
build complex AI products. Finally, AI is having a
huge impact on society. In the fourth and final week, you learn about how
AI systems can be biased and how to diminish
or eliminate such biases. You also learn how
AI is affecting developing economies and
how AI is affecting jobs. And be better able to
navigate this rise of AI for yourself and
for your organization. By the end of this
four week course, you'll be more
knowledgeable and better qualified than even the CEO's of most large companies in terms of your understanding
of AI technology, as well as your ability
to help yourself or help your company or
other organization navigate the rise of AI, I hope that after this course, you'll be in a position to
provide leadership to others as well as they
navigate these issues. Now, one of the
major technologies driving the recent rise of
AI is machine learning. But what is machine learning? Let's take a look
in the next video.