In the last video, you learned how to
execute pilot projects to gain momentum, build an in house AI team and
provide broad AI training. But if you want your business to not just
gain momentum in the short term, using AI, but in the long term be a very valuable
and maybe even defensible business, what can you do? Let's talk about AI strategy,
as well as, perhaps important for some companies internal and
external communications relative to AI. To recap, this is the five step
AI transformation playbook, and in this video we'll dive more
deeply into these final two steps. Step four of the AI transformation
playbook is to develop an AI strategy, which I hope for you may mean to leverage
AI to create an advantage specific to your industry sector. One unusual part of this playbook is that
developing the AI strategy is step four, not step one. When I shared this with many CEOs,
consistent requests or piece of feedback I got was, can you
please put the strategy as step one because I want to figure out
what is my company strategy, then want to find the resources and
then I'll execute on the strategy. But I found that companies that try
to define the strategy as step one before getting your feet wet,
before trying out AI and knowing what it feels like
to build an AI project. Companies like that tend to end up with
sometimes very academic strategies that are sometimes not true to life. So for example,
I've seen some CEOs copy and paste newspaper headlines
into their strategy. We read that data is important,
so you say, my strategy is to focus on
collecting a lot of data. But for your company, that data may or
may not be valuable, it may or may not be a good strategy for
your company. So I tend to recommend to companies
to start the other steps first. Execute the pilot projects,
start building a little bit of a team, start providing some training, so
that only after you understand AI and understand how it may
apply to your business. That you then formulate your strategy, and
I think this will work much better for your company than if you try to formulate
an AI strategy before your company. Including specifically the executive team,
has some slightly deeper understanding of what AI can and cannot do for
your industry sector. In addition, you might consider designing
a strategy that is aligned with the Virtuous Cycle of AI. Let me illustrate that with
an example from web search. One of the reasons that web search
is a very defensible business, meaning it's very difficult for new
entrants to compete with the incumbents with the existing large web
search engines, is this. If a company has a better product,
maybe a slightly better product, then that web search engine
can acquire more users. And having more users means that you
collect more data, because you get to observe what different users click on
when they search for different terms. And that data can be fed into an AI
engine to produce an even better product. So this means that, the company with a
somewhat better product ends up with even more users,
ends up with even more data, and does an even better product with this link
being created by modern AI technology. And it makes it very difficult for
a new entrant to break into this self reinforcing positive feedback loop
called the Virtuous Cycle of AI. Fortunately though,
this Virtuous Cycle of AI can be used by smaller teams entering
new verticals as well. So I think today it's very difficult to
build a new web search engine to compete with Google, or Baidu, or Bing, or Yandex. But if you are entering a new vertical, a new application area where there
isn't an entrenched incumbent. Then you might be able to develop a
strategy that lets you be the one to take advantage of this virtuous cycle. Let me illustrate with an example. There is a company called Blue River
that was acquired by John Deere for over 300 million US dollars. And Blue River makes agricultural
technology using AI. So what they did was built these
machines that would be towed behind a tractor in a big
agricultural field. And this machine would take pictures of
crops and figure out which is a crop and which is a weed, and use precision AI to
kill off just the weeds, but not the crop. So I knew some of the founders of Blue
River while they were Stanford students taking my class. And so to get the project started, they
actually just used strappiness and sweat. They used their personal cameras and
went out to a bunch of farms and took a lot of pictures of crops
in these agricultural fields. So they started to collect
pictures of heads of cabbage and weeds around the cabbage. Once they had enough data,
start off with a small data set, they could train a basic product. And the first product,
frankly, wasn't that great, it was trained on a small data set. But it kind of worked well enough
to start to convince some users to start to use their product. To tow this machine behind a tractor
in order to start cooling weeds for the farmers. And once this thing was
running around the farms, through the process of taking
pictures of heads of cabbage and killing off weeds, they naturally
acquired more and more data. And over the next few years, what they did
was, they were able to enter this positive feedback loop where having more data
allows you to have a better product, have a better product allows you to
convince more farmers to use it, and having farmers use it,
allows you to collect more data. And over several years entering a virtuous
cycle like this, can allow you to collect a huge data asset that then
makes your business quite defensible. And in fact, at the time of acquisition, I'm pretty sure that they had a much
bigger data asset of pictures of heads of cabbage lying in a field than
even the large tech companies had. And this actually makes the business
relatively defensible from even the large tech companies that have a lot of web
search data but do not have nearly as many pictures as this company does of heads of
cabbage lying in the agriculture fields. One more piece of advice, a lot of
people think that some of the large tech companies are great at AI,
and I think that's true. Some of the large tech
companies are very good at AI. But this doesn't mean you need to or should try to compete with these large
tech companies on AI in general. Because a lot of AI needs to be
specialized or verticalized for your industry sector. And so for most companies, it'll be in
your best interest to build AI specialized for your industry, and to do great
work on AI for your application areas. Rather than try to compete or
feel like you need to compete left and right with the large tech companies on AI
over the place, which just isn't true for most companies. Other elements of an AI strategy, we are going to live in an AI powered
world, and the right strategy can help your company navigate these
changes much more effectively. You should also consider
creating a data strategy. Leading AI companies are very good
at strategic data acquisition. For example, some of the large consumer
facing AI companies will launch services like a free email service,
or a free photo sharing service, or many other free services
that do not monetize. But allows them to collect data in all
sorts of ways that lets them learn more about you, so they can serve you more
relevant ads and thereby monetize the data in a way that is quite different than
direct monetization of that product. The way you acquire data is very different
depending on your industry vertical. But I have been involved in what feels
like these multi-year chess games, where other corporate competitors and I play multi-year games to see who can
acquire the most strategic data assets. You might also consider building
a unified data warehouse. If you have 50 different data
warehouses under the control of 50 different vice presidents. Then it's almost impossible for
an AI engineer or for a piece of AI software to pull together all of this
data in order to connect the dots. For example, if the data warehouse for
manufacturing is in a totally different place than the data
warehouse for customer complaints. Then how can an AI engineer pull
together this data to figure out what are the things that might happen in
manufacturing that causes you to ship a faulty cell phone, that causes
the customer to complain two months later. So a lot of leading AI companies have
put a lot of upfront effort into pulling the data into
a single data warehouse. Because this increases
the odds that an engineer or a piece of software can connect the dots
and spot the patterns between how an elevated temperature in manufacturing
today, may result in a faulty device that leads to a customer
complaint two months in the future. Thus letting you go back to improve
your manufacturing processes, there are many examples of
this in multiple industries. You can also use AI to create network
effects and platform advantages. In industries with winner take all
dynamics, AI can be a huge accelerator. For example, take the right sharing or
the right hailing business. Today companies like Uber and
Lyfts and Didi and Grab. Seem like they have relatively defensible
businesses because there are platforms that connect drivers with passengers. And is quite difficult for
a new entrant to accumulate both a large rider audience and a large passenger
audience at the same time. Social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook are also very defensible because
they are very strong network effects. Where having a lot of people
on one platform makes that platform more
attractive to other people. So it's very difficult for
a new entrant to break in. If you are working in a business with
these types of winner take all dynamics or winner take most dynamics. Then if AI can be used to help you
with growing faster, for example, with accelerating user acquisition. Then that can perhaps translate into a
much bigger chance that your company will be the one to succeed in
this business vertical. Strategy is very company and industry and
situation specific, so it's hard to give strategy advice that's completely
general to every single company. But I hope that these principles give
you a framework for thinking about what might be some key elements of
an AI strategy for your company. Now AI can also fit into more
traditional strategy frameworks. For example, Michael Porter many years
ago had written about low cost and high value strategies. If your company has a low cost strategy, then perhaps AI can be used to
reduce costs for your business. Or if your company has a high
value strategy to deliver really, really valuable products
with a higher cost. Then you might use AI to focus on
increasing the value of your products. And so, AI capabilities can also
help augment existing elements of a broader corporate strategy. Lastly, as you're building these
valuable and defensible businesses, I hope that you will also build only
businesses that make people better off. AI is a superpower, this is a very powerful thing that you
can do to build a great AI company. And so I hope that whatever you do, you do this only in ways that
make humanity better off. The final step of the AI transformation
playbook is to develop internal and external communications. AI can change a company and
its products, and it's important to communicate appropriately with
the relevant stakeholders about this. For example, this may include
investor relations to make sure that your investors can value your
company appropriately as an AI company. Investor relations may also
include government relations. For example, AI is entering healthcare,
which is a highly regulated industry, because government has a legitimate
need to protect patients. And so for AI to affect these
highly regulated industries, I think it's important for companies
to communicate with governments and to work collaboratively with them
in public-private partnerships. To make sure that, AI solutions bring
people the benefits it can, while also making sure that governments can
protect consumers and protect patients. So this will be true for healthcare,
it'll be true for self driving cars, it will be true for finance and
many other AI industry verticals. If your products change, then consumer or
user education will be important. AI talent is very scarce in today's world,
and so if you are able to showcase some of your initial successes, that could
really help with talent and recruiting. Finally, internal communications
is also important. If you are making a shift in your company,
then many people internally may have worries,
some legitimate and some less rational. About AI and internal communications, to reassure people where
appropriate can only be helpful. With these five steps,
I hope it gives you a vision for how you might be able to help
a company become good at AI. I hope you enjoyed these two videos
on the AI transformation playbook. I've seen companies become
much more valuable and much more effective by embracing and
become good at AI. And I hope these ideas may help you take
a first step toward helping your company good at AI. Having said that, I've also seen
many common pitfalls that companies run into when trying to implement
AI across the enterprise. Let's take a look at some of these
common pitfalls in the next video so that hopefully you can avoid them. Let's go on to the next video.