Maybe you have a lot of ideas for possible AI projects to work on. But before committing to one, how do you make sure
that this really is a worthwhile project? If it's a quick project
that might take you just a few days maybe just jump in right away and see
if it works or not, but some AI projects may
take many months to execute. In this video, I want to step you through the process that I use to double-check if a project is worth that many months of
effort. Let's take a look. Before committing to
a big AI project, I will usually conduct
due diligence on it. Due diligence has a specific
meaning in the legal world. But informally, it just
means that you want to spend some time to make sure what you hope is true really is true. You've already seen how the best AI projects are
ones that are feasible. So, it's something
that AI can do, as well as valuable. We really want to
choose projects to that the intersection
of these two sets. So, to make sure
a project is feasible, I will usually go through
technical diligence, and make sure that
the project is valuable, I will usually go through a
business diligence process. Let me tell you more
about these two steps. Technical diligence is
the process of making sure that the AI system you
hope to build really is doable, really is feasible. So, you might talk to
AI experts about whether or not the AI system can actually meet the desired level
of performance. For example, if you
are hoping to build a speech system that is
95 percent accurate, consulting of AI experts
or perhaps reading some of the trade literature can give you a sense of whether
this is doable or not. Or if you want a system
to inspect coffee mugs in a factory and you need your system to be
99 percent accurate. Again, is this actually doable
with today's technology? A second important question
for technical diligence is how much data is needed to get to this desired level
of performance, and do you have a way
to get that much data. Third; would be engineering timeline to try to
figure out how long it will take and how many people
it will take to build a system that you
would like to have built. In addition to
technical diligence, I will often also conduct
business diligence to make sure that
the project you envision really is valuable
for the business. So, a lot of AI projects will drive value
through lowering costs. For example, by
automating a few tasks or by squeezing more efficiency
onto the system. A lot of AI systems can
also increase revenue. For example, driving more people to check out in
your shopping cart or you may be building
an AI system to help you launch a new product or
a new line of business. So, business diligence
is the process of thinking through carefully
for the AI system that you're building such as a speech recognition system
that's 95 percent accurate or a visual inspection system that's 99.9 percent accurate, would allow you to achieve
your business goals. Whether your business goal is to improve your current business or to even create brand new
businesses in your company. When conducting
business diligence, I'll often end up building spreadsheet financial models to estimate the value
quantitatively such as estimate how many dollars
are actually saved or what do we think is
a reasonable assumption in terms of entries revenue, and to model out
the economics associated with a project before committing to many months of
effort on a project. Although not explicitly
listed on this slide, one thing I hope you
also consider doing as a third type of diligence
which is ethical diligence. I think there are a lot
of things that AI can do that will even
make a lot of money, but that may not make
society better off. So, in addition to technical diligence and
business diligence, I hope you also conduct ethical diligence and make
sure that whatever you're doing is actually making humanity and making
society better off. We'll also talk
more about this in the last week of
this course as well. As you're planning
out your AI project, you also have to decide do
you want to build or buy? This is an age-old question
in the IT world and we're facing
this question in AI as well. For example, hardly any companies build their own
computers these days. They buy someone
else's computers and hardly any companies build
their own Wi-Fi routers, just buy a commercial
Wi-Fi router. How about machine learning
and data science? Machine learning projects can
be in-house or outsourced. I've seen both of these models
used successfully. Sometimes if you outsource
a machine learning project, you can have access
much more quickly to talent and get going
faster on a project. It is nice if eventually
you build your own in-house AI team and can also
do these projects in-house. You'll hear more about
this when we talk about AI translation playbook in
greater detail next week. Unlike machine
learning projects though, data science projects are
more commonly done in-house. They're not impossible
to outsource, you can sometimes outsource them, but what I've seen is that data science projects are
often so closely tied to your business that it takes very deep day-to-day
knowledge about your business to do
the best data science projects. So, just as a percentage,
as a fraction, I see data science projects in-house more than machine
learning projects. Finally, in every
industry some things will be industry standard and you should avoid
building those. A common answer to the build
versus buy question was, build the things
that are going to be quite specialized to you or completely specialized
to you or they'll allow you to build a unique
defensible advantage, but the things that
will be industry standard probably
some other company will build and it'll be more
efficient for you to just buy it rather than
build it in-house. One of my teams have
a really poetic phrase which is, "Don't sprint in front of a train," and what that means is, if this is a train running on a railway tracks and that's the small chimney
with the puff of smoke. What you don't want to do
is to be the person or the engineer trying to sprint faster and faster
ahead of the train. The train is the industry
standard solution, and so, if there's
a company, maybe a startup, maybe a big company or
maybe an open-source effort that is building
an industry-standard solution, then you may want
to avoid trying to run faster and faster to
keep ahead of the train. Because even though you could sprint faster in the short term, eventually, the train
will catch up and crash someone trying to
sprint in front of a train. So, when there's
a massive force of an industry-standard
solution that is been built, you might be better off just embracing an industry-standard or embracing someone else's platform rather than trying to
do everything in-house. We all live in a world
of limited resources, limited time, limited data, limited engineering resources, and so, I hope you can
focus those resources on the projects with
our most unique and will make the biggest difference
to your company. Through the process of technical diligence as well
as business diligence, I hope you can start to
identify projects that are potentially valuable or that seem promising for your business. If the project is a big company, maybe it'll take
many months to do. It's not unusual for me
to spend even a few weeks conducting this type of diligence before
committing to a project. Now, say you found
a few promising projects, how do you engage
with an AI team? How do you work with an AI team to try to get
these projects done? Let's talk about that
in the next video.