The terms deep learning and neural network
are used almost interchangeably in AI. And even though they're great for
machine learning, there's also been a bit of hype and
bit of mystique about them. This video will demystify deep learning so that you have a sense of what deep
learning and neural networks really are. Let's use an example from
the demand prediction. Let's say you run a website
that sells t-shirts, and you want to know,
based on how you price the t-shirts, how many units you expect to sell,
how many t-shirts you expect to sell. You might then create
a data set like this, where the higher the price of the t-shirt,
the lower the demand. So you might fit a straight line to this
data showing that as the price goes up, the demand goes down. Now, demand can never go below zero. So maybe you say that the demand
will flatten out at zero, and beyond a certain point, you expect
pretty much no one to buy any t-shirts. It turns out this blue line is maybe
the simplest possible neural network. You have as input the price A, and you want it to output
the estimated demand, B. So the way you would draw this
as a neural network is that the price would be input to
this little round thing there, and this little round thing
outputs the estimated demand. In the terminology of AI, this little
round thing here is called a neuron, or sometimes it's called
an artificial neuron, and all it does is compute this blue curve
that I've drawn here on the left. This is maybe the simplest possible
neural network with a single artificial neuron that just inputs the price and
outputs the estimated demand. If you think of this orange circle, this
artificial neuron, as a little lego break, all that a neural network is, is if you
take a lot of these Lego breaks and stack them on top of each other until you get a
big pow or a big network of these neurons. Let's look at a more complex example. Suppose that instead of knowing only
the price of the t-shirts, you also have the shipping costs that the customers
will have to pay to get the t-shirts. Maybe you spend more or
less on marketing in a given week, and you can also make the t-shirt
out of a thick, heavy, expensive cotton or a much cheaper,
more lightweight material. These are some of the factors that
you think will affect the demand for your t-shirts. Let's see what a more complex
neural network might look like. You know that your customers
care a lot about affordability. So let's say you have one neuron,
and let me draw this one in blue, whose job it is to estimate
the affordability of the t-shirts. And so
affordability is mainly a function of the price of the shirt and
of the shipping cost. A second thing that will affect the demand
for your t-shirts is awareness. How much are consumers aware that
you're selling this t-shirt? So the main thing that affects awareness
is going to be your marketing. So let me draw here a second
artificial neuron that inputs your marketing budget,
how much you spent on marketing and outputs, how aware
are consumers of your t-shirt. Finally, the perceived quality of
your product will also affect demand, and perceived quality would
be affected by marketing. If the marketing tries to convince
people this is a high quality t-shirt, and sometimes the price of something
also affects perceived quality. So I'm going to draw here
a third artificial neuron that inputs price marketing and
material and tries to estimate the perceived
quality of your t-shirts. Finally, now that the earlier neurons,
these three blue neurons, have figured out how affordable,
how much consumer awareness and what's the perceived quality,
you can then have one more neuron over here that takes us input these three
factors and outputs the estimated demand. So this is a neural network, and its job is to learn to map
from these four inputs. That's the input A to
the output B to demand. So it learns this input to output,
or A to B mapping. This is a fairly small neural network
with just four artificial neurons. In practice, neural networks used today
are much larger, with easily thousands, tens of thousands, or even much
larger than that numbers of neurons. Now, there's just one final detail of
this description that I want to clean up, which is that in the way I've
described a neural network, it was as if you had to figure out that
the key factors are affordability, awareness, and perceived quality. One of the wonderful things about
using neural networks is that to train a neural network, in other words,
to build a machine learning system using a neural network, all you have to do is
give it the input A and the output B, and it figures out all of the things
in the middle by itself. So to build a neural network, what you would do is feed it lots
of data with the input A and have a neural network that just
looks like this with a few blue neurons feeding to
a yellow output neuron. And then you have to give it
data with the demand B as well. And it's the software's job to figure
out what these blue neurons should be computing so that it can completely
automatically learn the most accurate possible function,
mapping from the input A to the output B. And it turns out that if you
give this enough data and train a neural network that is big enough, this can do an incredibly good job
mapping from inputs A to outputs B. So that's a neural network. It's a group of artificial neurons, each of which computes
a relative simple function. But when you stack enough of
them together, like lego breaks, they can compute incredibly complicated
functions that give you very accurate mappings from the input A to the output B. Now, in this video, you saw an example of neural networks
applied to demand prediction. Let's go on to the next video to see
a more complex example of neural networks applied to face recognition.