This week, you saw
some examples of what it's like to build
a complex AI product, like a smart speaker,
or self-driving car. You also learned
about the roles and responsibilities
of large AI teams, and maybe what it's like
to build a large AI team, and saw the AI
transformation playbook for helping a great company
become a great AI company. In case some of this
seems daunting, because some of these will take maybe two or three
years to execute. In case any of these
seems daunting, it's okay because
the more important thing is that you're able to
take the first step. In fact, by taking this course, you've already taken
a great first step. So, I hope that after
this course you will take also an equally
good second step. So, in this video, I
want to share with you some concrete suggestions for the next step you can take toward AI for yourself
or for your company. Here are some initial steps
I would urge you to take. Rather than going it alone, consider having friends
in your company or personal friends outside work
to learn about AI with you. This could mean,
asking them to take this course with
you or after you, or starting a reading
group to read some books or
other materials about AI. With what you've learned in
this course, you will also, especially if you have
engineering friends, be able to start
brainstorming projects. No project is too small and it's better to start
small and succeed, than to start too
big and not succeed. Many projects can be done just by you or perhaps by
you and a friend. If you and or a friend take an online course on
machine learning, that's enough know-how
for you to get started on many potentially very
valuable AI projects. In a company, you might also hire a few machine learning or data science people to help out, in addition to providing in-house training to develop
the in-house talent. When you're ready to go bigger, you might also try to have your company hire or
appoint an AI leader, such as a VP of AI or
a Chief AI Officer. But maybe you don't need
a very senior AI leader before hiring just a few
machine learning or data scientists people to
get going more quickly. Finally, I've spoken
with a lot of CEOs and Boards about
AI transformations. If you want your company
to become greater AI, you would also consider trying
to discuss with your CEO, the possibility of trying to execute an AI transformation. I think the key question to ask your CEO or your Board is, will your company be
much more valuable and/or much more effective
if it was great at AI. And if you and they
think the answer is yes, that might be a good reason
for the company to try to execute
an AI transformation. The different items
on this list have varying levels of
difficulty to execute, but I hope you will
start with what you can and then grow
your AI efforts from there. I see many people, some technical many
non-technical, help their companies learn about AI and start to use
it effectively. After these videos, you now have the concrete tools
to do the same. So, I hope you'll take advantage of them and help your company, help yourself, and
help others as well. Finally, we have two more
optional videos for this week on a survey of
major AI application areas, as well as major AI techniques. So, if you've ever wondered, what do the terms Computer Vision and Natural Language
Processing mean? Or, what is
Reinforcement Learning? Or, what is
Unsupervised Learning? Please take a look
at these videos, since we'll teach you
these application areas, as well as technologies
in the next two videos. We made these videos optional because they are a little
bit more technical, but after watching them, you will be able to better
communicate with AI engineers. So, I hope you take a look. Either way, thank you for watching all of
these videos this week, and look forward to seeing
you in next week's videos.