You might have heard terminology from AI,
such as machine learning, or data science, or neural networks or deep learning. What do these terms mean? In this video, you see what is this terminology of
the most important concepts of AI? So that you will speak
with others about it and start thinking how these things
could apply in your business. Let's get started. Let's say you have a housing data set
like this, with the size of the house, number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms,
whether the house is newly renovated, as well as the price. If you want to build a mobile
app to help people price houses, so this would be the input A and
this would be the output B. Then this would be a machine learning
system, in particular, it'd be one of those machine learning systems that learns
input to output, or A to B mappings. So machine learning often
results in a running AI system. So it's a piece of software that
any time of day, any time of night, can automatically input A these
properties of a house and output B. So if you have an AI system running
serving dozens or hundreds of thousands of millions of users,
that's usually a machine learning system. In contrast, here's something
else you might want to do, which is to have a team analyze your
data set in order to gain insights. So a team might come up with
a conclusion like, hey, did you know if you have two houses of a
similar size of a similar square footage. If the house is three bedrooms, then they
cost a lot more than the house of two bedrooms, even if the square
footage is the same? Or did you know that newly
renovated homes have a 15% premium? And this could help you make decisions
such as, given a similar square footage, do you want to build a 2 bedroom or a 3
bedroom size in order to maximize value? Or is it worth an investment to renovate
a home in the hope that the renovation increases the price you
can sell a house for? So these would be examples of data science
projects, where the output of a data science project is a set of insights that
can help you make business decisions, such as what type of house to build or
whether to invest in renovation. The boundaries between these two terms,
machine learning and data science, are actually a little bit fuzzy, and
these terms are not used consistently, even in industry today. But what I'm giving here is maybe the most
commonly used definitions of these terms, but you will not find universal
adherence to these definitions. To formalize these two notions a bit more,
machine learning is the field of study that gives computers the ability to learn
without being explicitly programmed. This is a definition by Arthur Samuel,
many decades ago. Arthur Samuel was one of the pioneers
of machine learning, who was famous for building a checkers playing program that
could play checkers even better than he himself, the inventor could play the game. So a machine learning
project will often result in a piece of software that runs
that outputs B, given A. In contrast, data science is
a science of extracting knowledge and insights from data. And so the output of a data science
project is often a slide deck, the PowerPoint presentation
that summarizes conclusions for executives to take business actions. Or that summarizes conclusions for a product team to decide
how to improve a website. Let me give an example of machine
learning versus data science in the online advertising industry. Today, the launch ad platforms
all have a piece of AI that quickly tells them what's the ad
you are most likely to click on. So that's a machine learning system, and
this turns out to be incredibly lucrative. AI system that inputs information about
you and about the ad and outputs, will you click on this or not? These systems are running 24/7, and these are machine learning systems that
drive ad revenue for these companies. So there's a piece of software that runs. In contrast, I've also done data science projects
in the online advertising industry. If analyzing data tells you, for
example, that the travel industry is not buying a lot of ads, but if you send
more salespeople to sell ads to travel companies, you could convince
them to use more advertising. Then that would be an example
of a data science project and a data science conclusion that results
in executives deciding to ask the sales team to spend more time reaching
out to the travel industry. So even in one company, you may
have different machine learning and data science projects,
both of which can be incredibly valuable. You have also heard of deep learning. So what is deep learning? Let's say you want to
predict housing prices. You want to price houses, so you have
an input that tells you the size of house, number of bedrooms, number of bathrooms,
and where it's newly renovated. One of the most effective ways to
price houses, given this input A, would be to feed it to this thing here
in order to have it output the price. This big thing in the middle
is called a neural network. And sometimes we also call it
an artificial neural network, and that's to distinguish it from the neural
network that is in your brain. So the human brain is made up of neurons. And so when we say artificial neural
network, that's just to emphasize that this is not the biological brain, but
instead it's a piece of software. And what a neural network does,
or an artificial neural network does is takes this input A,
which is all of these four things, and then output B,
which is the estimated price of the house. Now, in a later optional video this week, I'll show you more what this
artificial neural network really is. But all of human cognition is made
up of neurons in your brain passing electrical impulses,
passing little messages to each other. And when we draw a picture of
an artificial neural network, there's a very loose analogy to the brain. And these little circles are called
artificial neurons, or just neurons for short, that also passes
neurons to each other. And this big artificial neural
network is just a big mathematical equation that tells it, given the inputs
A, how do you compute the price B? In case it seems like there are a lot
of details here, don't worry about it. We'll talk more about these details later. But the key takeaways are that a neural
network is a very effective technique for learning A to B, or
input to output mappings. And today, the terms neural network and
deep learning are used almost interchangeably, they mean
essentially the same thing. Many decades ago, this type of
software was called a neural network. But in recent years, we found that deep learning was
just a much better sounding brand. And so that, for better words, is
the term that's been taking off recently. So what do neural networks, or artificial
neural networks have to do with the brain? It turns out almost nothing. Neural networks were originally inspired
by the brain, but the details of how they work are almost completely unrelated
to how biological brains work. So is very cautious today about making
any analogies between artificial neural networks and the biological brain, even though there
was some loose inspiration there. So AI has many different tools. In this video, you learned about
what are machine learning and data science, and also what is deep
learning and what's a neural network. You might also hear in the media
other buzzwords like generative AI, unsupervised learning,
reinforcement learning, graphical models,
planning knowledge graphs, and so on. You don't need to know what all of these
other terms mean, but these are just other tools for getting AI systems to
make computers act intelligently. I'll try to give you a sense of what
some of these terms mean in later videos as well. But the most important tools and terms I
hope you remember from this are machine learning and data science, as well as
deep learning and neural networks. Which are a very powerful way
to do machine learning and sometimes data science. If we were to draw a diagram showing
how all these concepts fit together, this is what it might look like. AI is this huge set of tools for
making computers behave intelligently. Of AI, the biggest subset is probably
tools from machine learning, but AI does have other tools
than machine learning, such as some of these buzzwords
listed at the bottom. And of machine learning, the part of
machine learning that's most important these days is neural networks or
deep learning. Which is a very powerful set of tools for
carrying out supervised learning, or A to B mappings,
as well as some other things. But there are also other
machine learning tools that are not just deep learning tools. So how does data science
fit into this picture? There is inconsistency in
how the terminology is used. Some people will tell you data
science is a subset of AI. Some people will tell you AI
is a subset of data science. It depends a bit on who you ask, but
I would say that data science is maybe a cross cutting subset of all of these
tools that uses many tools from AI, machine learning and deep learning. But has some other separate tools as
well that solves a very set of important problems in driving business insights. In this video, you saw what is machine
learning, what is data science, and what is deep learning and neural networks. I hope this gives you a sense of the most
common and important terminology used in AI, and you can start thinking about how
these things might apply to your company. Now, what does it mean for
a company to be good at AI? Let's talk about that in the next video.