What makes a company good at AI? Perhaps even more importantly, what will it take for your company to become
great at using AI? I had previously led
the Google brain team, and Baidu's AI group, which I respectively
helped Google and Baidu become great AI companies. So, what can you do
for your company? This is the lesson I
had learned to watching the rise of the Internet
that I think will be relevant to how all of us navigate the rise of
AI. Let's take a look. A lesson we learned from the rise of
the Internet was that, if you take your
favorite shopping mall. So, my wife and I
sometimes shop at Stanford shopping center and you build a website
for the Shopping mall. Maybe sell things on the website, that by itself does not turn the shopping mall into
an internet company. In fact, a few years
ago I was speaking with the CEO of a large retail
company who said to me, "Hey Andrew, I have a website, I sell things in the website." Amazon has a website, Amazon sells things on
website is the same thing. But of course, it wasn't, in the shopping mall
with a website isn't the same thing as a first-class
internet company. So, what is it that defines
an internet company if it isn't just
whether or not you sell things on the website? I think an Internet
company is a company that does the thing that
internet lets you do really well. For example, we engage
and pervasive AB testing. Meaning we routinely throw up two different versions of website and see which one works
better because we can. So, we learn much faster. Whereas in a traditional
shopping mall, very difficult to have two shopping malls in
two parallel universes and you can only
maybe change things around every quarter
or every six months. Internet companies sense
a very short iteration times. You can ship
a new product every week or maybe even every
day because you can whereas a shopping mall
can be redesigned and we are protected only
every several months. Internet companies also tend to push decision-making down from the CEO to the engineers and to other specialized rules such
that the product managers. This is in contrast to
a traditional shopping mall. We can maybe have
the CEO just decide all the key decisions and then just everyone does
what the CEO says. It turns out that traditional
model doesn't work in the internet era because
only the engineers and other specialized roles like product managers
know enough about the technology and
the product and the users to make
great decisions. So, these are some of the things that internet companies do in order to make sure they
do the things that the internet doesn't
do really well. This is a lesson we learned
from the internet era. How about the AI era? I think that today, you can take any
company and have it use a few neural networks or few deep learning algorithms. That by itself does not turn the accompany into an AI company. Instead, what makes
a great AI company, sometimes an AI-first company is, are you doing the things that
AI lets you do really well? For example, AI
companies are very good at strategic
data acquisition. This is why many of the large consumer tech companies
may have three products that do not monetize
and it allows them to acquire data that they
can monetize elsewhere. Serve less strategy teams where we would
deliberately launch products that do not make any money just for the sake
of data acquisition. Thinking through how to get data is a key part of
the great AI companies. AI companies sends
a unified data warehouses. If you have 50
different databases or 50 different data
warehouses under the control of 50
different Vice-Presidents, then there will be impossible
for an engineer to get the data into one place
so that they can connect the dots and
spot the patterns. So, many great AI companies have preemptively invested
in bringing the data together into
single data warehouse to increase the odds that
the teams can connect the dots. Subject of course to
privacy guarantees and also to data regulations
such as GDPR in Europe. AI companies are very good at spotting automation
opportunities. We're very good at saying, Oh! Let's insert the supervised
learning algorithm and have an ATP mapping here so that we don't
have to have people do these tasks instead
we can automate It. AI companies also have many
new roles such as the MLE or Machine Learning Engineer
and new ways of dividing up tasks among
different members of a team. So, for a company to
become good at AI means, architecting for company
to do the things that AI makes it possible
to do really well. Now, for a company
that become good at AI does require a process. In fact, 10 years ago, Google and Baidu as
well as companies like Facebook and Microsoft
that I was not a part of, we're not great AI companies
the way they are today. So, how can a company
become good at AI? It turns out that
becoming good at AI is not a mysterious
magical process. Instead, there is
a systematic process through which many companies, almost any big company
can become good at AI. This is the five-step AI
transformation playbook that I recommend to
companies that want to become effective at using AI. I'll give a brief overview
of the playbook here and they're going to
detail in a later week. Step one is to execute pilot
projects to gain momentum. So, just to a few small projects to get a better sense of
what AI can or cannot do and get a better sense of what doing an AI project feels like. This you could do
in house, or you can also do with an outsource team. But eventually, you
then need to do step two which is the building in house AI team and provide
broad AI training, not just to the engineers
but also to the managers, division leaders and executives and how they think about AI. After doing this or
as you're doing this, you have a better sense
of what AI is and then is important for
many companies to develop an AI strategy. Finally, to align internal
and external communications so that all your stakeholders
from employees, customers and investors
are aligned with how your company is navigating
the rise of AI. AI has created
tremendous value in the software industry and
will continue to do so. It will also create tremendous value outside
the software industry. If you can help your
company become good at AI, I hope you can play
a leading role in creating a lot of this value. In this video you saw
what is it that makes a company a good AI company and also briefly the
AI transformation playbook which I'll go
into much greater detail on in a later week
as a road-map for helping companies
become great at AI. If you're interested,
there is also published online an AI transformation
playbook that goes into these five steps
in greater detail for you see more of these in
the later weeks as well. Now, one of the challenges
of doing AI projects such as the pilot projects in step one is understanding what AI
can and cannot do. In the next video, I want
to show you and give you some examples of what
AI can and cannot do, to help you better
select projects AI that there may be effective
for your company. Let's go on to the next video.